docs/architecture/architecture.md, before:

# Development Architecture

This document outlines the development architecture of the project to
best fit in agentize's ecosystem. Although not strictly required, and
are some common software engineering practices, it is highly recommended
to follow, in local code structure, git, and GitHub usage.

All the `sdk` created by `lol init` command shall follow this following architecture.


## Local Code Base

The code base shall follow the structure:

```plaintext
docs/                # High-level documentation files and design docs
└── git-msg-tags.md  # Git commit message tags documentation
scripts/             # CLI and utility scripts
└── pre-commit       # Git pre-commit hook script
src/                 # Source code files, which can also be `lib`
tests/               # Test cases
Makefile             # High-level entrance for this project
README.md            # In almost every folder, a README.md should explain its purpose
.gitignore           # Git ignore file
```

Refer to `./sdk.md` for more information about the SDK structure created by `lol init`.

### Makefile Interfaces

- `make test` - Run all test cases (bash by default)
- `make test-shells` - Run all test cases under multiple shells (bash and zsh)
- `make test-sdk` - Run SDK template tests
- `make test-cli` - Run CLI command tests
- `make test-lint` - Run validation and linting tests
- `make test-handsoff` - Run end-to-end integration tests
- `make test-fast` - Run fast tests (sdk + cli + lint)
- `make test-e2e` - Run end-to-end tests (alias for handsoff)
- `make setup` - Creates a `setup.sh` script to set up the development environment
  - NOTE: This does not run the setup itself as it only affects the subshell
  - To run the setup, use `source ./setup.sh`
  - Of course, `setup.sh` should be in `.gitignore`
  - This design decision is made because many projects rely on its repo path in `setup.sh`,
  while hardcoding it in `setup.sh` is a bad practice.
- `make pre-commit` - Installs the git pre-commit hook
- `make clean` - Cleans up generated files
- `make help` - Displays help information about available Makefile targets

## Git Usage

- This development workflow prefers to use bare repo for multiple worktrees.
  - Clone your repo `git clone --bare <repo-url> <repo-name>.git`
  - Initialize worktree environment `wt init` (run once)
  - Switch to main worktree `wt main`
  - Create worktree for issue `wt spawn <issue-number>`
    - NOTE: `spawn` subcommand is now an all-in-one command that creates the worktree, `cd`s into this tree, and lauches Claude code with the issue implementation prompt.
    - Example: `wt spawn 42`
- Your git repo should look like this:

```plaintext
<repo-name>.git/      # Bare git repository
├── trees/            # Worktrees directory
│     ├── main/       # Main worktree
│     ├── issue-42/   # Worktree for issue #42
│     └── ...         # Other worktrees
└── .../              # Other git internal files
```

## GitHub Usage

It is preferred to associate each repository with a GitHub Projects v2 board for better issue tracking and project management.

**Create or associate a project:**
- `lol project --create [--org <org>] [--title <title>]` - Create a new GitHub Projects v2 board and associate it
- `lol project --associate <org>/<id>` - Associate the current repo to an existing GitHub Projects v2 board

**Generate automation template:**
- `lol project --automation [--write <path>]` - Generate a GitHub Actions workflow for automatically adding issues/PRs to the project

**Metadata storage:**
- The project association is stored in `.agentize.yaml` with `project.org` and `project.id` fields
- Refer to `./metadata.md` for more information about `.agentize.yaml` structure

**Related documentation:**
- Refer to `./project.md` for Kanban design and project management workflow
- Refer to `../workflows/github-projects-automation.md` for automation setup

Commit message:

[milestone][docs][test]: Milestone 1 for issue #213
docs/architecture/architecture.md: Document session-init.sh hook behavior
tests/handsoff/test-hook-session-init-agentize-home.sh: Add verification test

This milestone adds documentation and test cases to verify that the
.claude/hooks/session-init.sh hook correctly sets AGENTIZE_HOME for both
main and linked worktrees using 'make setup' and 'source setup.sh'.

Related to issue #213. Test status: 0/1 tests passed.

docs/architecture/architecture.md, after:

# Development Architecture

This document outlines the development architecture of the project to
best fit in agentize's ecosystem. Although not strictly required, and
are some common software engineering practices, it is highly recommended
to follow, in local code structure, git, and GitHub usage.

All the `sdk` created by `lol init` command shall follow this following architecture.


## Local Code Base

The code base shall follow the structure:

```plaintext
docs/                # High-level documentation files and design docs
└── git-msg-tags.md  # Git commit message tags documentation
scripts/             # CLI and utility scripts
└── pre-commit       # Git pre-commit hook script
src/                 # Source code files, which can also be `lib`
tests/               # Test cases
Makefile             # High-level entrance for this project
README.md            # In almost every folder, a README.md should explain its purpose
.gitignore           # Git ignore file
```

Refer to `./sdk.md` for more information about the SDK structure created by `lol init`.

### Makefile Interfaces

- `make test` - Run all test cases (bash by default)
- `make test-shells` - Run all test cases under multiple shells (bash and zsh)
- `make test-sdk` - Run SDK template tests
- `make test-cli` - Run CLI command tests
- `make test-lint` - Run validation and linting tests
- `make test-handsoff` - Run end-to-end integration tests
- `make test-fast` - Run fast tests (sdk + cli + lint)
- `make test-e2e` - Run end-to-end tests (alias for handsoff)
- `make setup` - Creates a `setup.sh` script to set up the development environment
  - NOTE: This does not run the setup itself as it only affects the subshell
  - To run the setup, use `source ./setup.sh`
  - Of course, `setup.sh` should be in `.gitignore`
  - This design decision is made because many projects rely on its repo path in `setup.sh`,
  while hardcoding it in `setup.sh` is a bad practice.
  - The `.claude/hooks/session-init.sh` hook uses `make setup` and sources `setup.sh` to
  export `AGENTIZE_HOME` for the active worktree (main or linked)
- `make pre-commit` - Installs the git pre-commit hook
- `make clean` - Cleans up generated files
- `make help` - Displays help information about available Makefile targets

## Git Usage

- This development workflow prefers to use bare repo for multiple worktrees.
  - Clone your repo `git clone --bare <repo-url> <repo-name>.git`
  - Initialize worktree environment `wt init` (run once)
  - Switch to main worktree `wt main`
  - Create worktree for issue `wt spawn <issue-number>`
    - NOTE: `spawn` subcommand is now an all-in-one command that creates the worktree, `cd`s into this tree, and lauches Claude code with the issue implementation prompt.
    - Example: `wt spawn 42`
- Your git repo should look like this:

```plaintext
<repo-name>.git/      # Bare git repository
├── trees/            # Worktrees directory
│     ├── main/       # Main worktree
│     ├── issue-42/   # Worktree for issue #42
│     └── ...         # Other worktrees
└── .../              # Other git internal files
```

## GitHub Usage

It is preferred to associate each repository with a GitHub Projects v2 board for better issue tracking and project management.

**Create or associate a project:**
- `lol project --create [--org <org>] [--title <title>]` - Create a new GitHub Projects v2 board and associate it
- `lol project --associate <org>/<id>` - Associate the current repo to an existing GitHub Projects v2 board

**Generate automation template:**
- `lol project --automation [--write <path>]` - Generate a GitHub Actions workflow for automatically adding issues/PRs to the project

**Metadata storage:**
- The project association is stored in `.agentize.yaml` with `project.org` and `project.id` fields
- Refer to `./metadata.md` for more information about `.agentize.yaml` structure

**Related documentation:**
- Refer to `./project.md` for Kanban design and project management workflow
- Refer to `../workflows/github-projects-automation.md` for automation setup
