docs/workflows/milestone.md, before:

# Milestone Workflow

This document describes the milestone workflow for implementing large features incrementally with automatic progress tracking and checkpoint creation.

## Overview

The milestone workflow enables AI agents to implement large features (typically > 800 LOC) in manageable increments, creating checkpoint documents that track progress, test status, and remaining work. This allows development to span multiple sessions while maintaining clear context.

### What are Milestones?

Milestones are development checkpoints created during the implementation of large features. Each milestone:

- **Tracks progress**: Records what has been implemented and what remains
- **Monitors tests**: Shows which tests are passing and which are not
- **Provides context**: Enables resuming work from where you left off
- **Commits progress**: Creates git commits with `--no-verify` to bypass pre-commit hooks when tests are incomplete

### When to Use Milestones

Use the milestone workflow when:

- **Large features**: Implementation estimated at > 800 LOC
- **Multi-session work**: Feature requires breaking work across multiple sessions
- **Complex implementations**: Step-by-step incremental progress is beneficial
- **Test-driven development**: Tests exist but implementation is in progress

**Do NOT use milestones for:**
- Small features (< 200 LOC) - implement directly
- Bug fixes - use regular commits
- Documentation-only changes - no need for incremental tracking

---

## Workflow Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Create plan with /make-a-plan] --> B[Create issue with /open-issue]
    B --> C[Start implementation with /issue-to-impl]
    C --> D[Create new branch]
    D --> E[Update documentation]
    E --> F[Create/update test cases]
    F --> G[Create Milestone 1 - commit docs + tests]
    G --> H[Automatic milestone skill loop]
    H -->|LOC < 800 AND all tests pass| I[Completion: Ready for PR]
    H -->|LOC >= 800 AND tests incomplete| J[Create Milestone N]
    J --> K[User starts new session]
    K --> L[Resume with /miles2miles]
    L --> H

    style A fill:#ccddff
    style B fill:#ccddff
    style C fill:#ccddff
    style G fill:#ffffcc
    style H fill:#ccddff
    style I fill:#ccffcc
    style J fill:#ffffcc
    style K fill:#ffcccc
    style L fill:#ccddff
```

**Legend:**
- **Blue boxes**: Automated steps performed by AI agents/skills/commands
- **Yellow boxes**: Milestone creation points
- **Green boxes**: Completion/success states
- **Red boxes**: User intervention required (start new session)

---

## Milestone Document Format

Milestone documents are stored in `.milestones/issue-{N}-milestone-{M}.md` where:
- `{N}` is the issue number
- `{M}` is the milestone number (1, 2, 3, ...)

### Document Structure

```markdown
# Milestone {M} for Issue #{N}

**Branch:** issue-{N}-{brief-title}
**Created:** YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS
**LOC Implemented:** ~XXX lines
**Test Status:** X/Y tests passed

## Work Remaining

[List of implementation steps not yet completed from the original plan]

- Step 3: Implement feature X (Estimated: 120 LOC)
  - File: path/to/file.py - Description
- Step 4: Add edge case handling (Estimated: 80 LOC)
  - File: path/to/other.py - Description

## Next File Changes (Estimated LOC for Next Milestone)

- `path/to/file1.py`: Description of changes needed (~50 LOC)
- `path/to/file2.py`: Description of changes needed (~120 LOC)
- `tests/test_feature.sh`: Additional test cases (~80 LOC)

**Total estimated for next milestone:** ~250 LOC

## Test Status

**Passed Tests:**
- test-agentize-modes.sh: All 6 tests passed
- test-c-sdk.sh: All tests passed

**Not Passed Tests:**
- test-new-feature.sh: 3 tests failing
  - Test case: Feature initialization
  - Test case: Edge case handling
  - Test case: Error recovery
```

---

## Commands and Skills

### `/issue-to-impl` - Start Implementation

Orchestrates the full implementation workflow from issue to completion.

**Usage:**
```
/issue-to-impl [issue-number]
```

If issue number is not provided, it will be extracted from conversation context.

**What it does:**
1. Creates a new development branch using the `fork-dev-branch` skill
2. Updates documentation based on the plan in the issue
3. Creates/updates test cases based on the plan
4. Creates **Milestone 1** automatically (commits docs + tests)
5. Starts the automatic milestone skill loop:
   - Implements code in chunks (~100-200 LOC)
   - Runs tests after each chunk
   - Stops when LOC ≥ 800 without completion (creates next milestone)
   - Continues until all tests pass (completion)

**Stopping conditions:**
- **Milestone created**: Agent stops and informs user to run `/miles2miles` in next session
- **Completion**: All tests pass, ready for PR creation

**Example:**
```
User: /issue-to-impl 42
Agent: Creating branch for issue #42...
Agent: Updating documentation...
Agent: Creating test cases...
Agent: Creating Milestone 1 (0/8 tests pass)...
Agent: Implementing feature...
Agent: Milestone 2 created at 850 LOC (3/8 tests pass). Please run /miles2miles to continue.
```

### `/miles2miles` - Resume from Milestone

Resumes implementation from the latest milestone on the current branch.

**Usage:**
```
/miles2miles
```

No arguments needed - automatically detects branch and latest milestone.

**What it does:**
1. Validates you're on a development branch (issue-{N}-*)
2. Finds the latest milestone file: `.milestones/issue-{N}-milestone-*.md`
3. Loads context: work remaining, next file changes, test status
4. Displays milestone summary to user
5. Invokes the milestone skill to continue implementation
6. Creates next milestone or completes if all tests pass

**Example:**
```
User: /miles2miles
Agent: Resuming from Milestone 2 for Issue #42
Agent: Test status: 3/8 tests passed
Agent: Estimated work remaining: ~350 LOC
Agent: Continuing implementation...
Agent: [implements next chunk]
Agent: Milestone 3 created at 780 LOC (6/8 tests pass). Please run /miles2miles to continue.
```

### `milestone` Skill - Implementation Driver

The core skill that drives incremental implementation. Automatically invoked by `/issue-to-impl` and `/miles2miles`.

**What it does:**
- Reads the plan from issue or latest milestone document
- Implements code in chunks (100-200 LOC per chunk)
- Tracks total LOC count using `git diff --stat`
- Runs tests after each implementation chunk
- Parses test results to track passed/failed counts
- Creates milestone documents when LOC ≥ 800 without completion
- Signals completion when all tests pass

---

## Example Walkthrough

### Scenario: Implementing a Large Feature (1200 LOC estimated)

**Step 1: Planning**
```
User: /make-a-plan
[Agent creates comprehensive plan with 1200 LOC estimate]

User: /open-issue
[Agent creates issue #42 with the plan]
```

**Step 2: Start Implementation**
```
User: /issue-to-impl 42

Agent: Creating branch issue-42-add-typescript-support...
Agent: Updating documentation...
  - docs/typescript-support.md created
  - README.md updated
Agent: Creating test cases...
  - tests/test-typescript.sh created (8 test cases)
Agent: Creating Milestone 1...
  - Committed docs + tests (0/8 tests pass)
Agent: Implementing feature...
  [works for ~45 minutes, implementing code]
Agent: Milestone 2 created at 820 LOC (3/8 tests pass)
Agent: Please start a new session and run /miles2miles to continue.
```

**Step 3: Resume (Next Session)**
```
User: /miles2miles

Agent: Resuming from Milestone 2 for Issue #42
Agent: Test status: 3/8 tests passed
Agent: Estimated work remaining: ~380 LOC
Agent: Continuing implementation...
  [works for ~30 minutes]
Agent: All tests passed (8/8)!
Agent: Implementation complete, ready for PR creation.
```

---

## Best Practices

### 1. Always Start with a Plan

Create a detailed plan using `/make-a-plan` before starting implementation. The plan should include:
- Specific files to modify/create
- LOC estimates for each step
- Test strategy
- Implementation steps in Design-first TDD order

### 2. Run `/issue-to-impl` Instead of Manual Branch Creation

Don't manually create branches and implement - use `/issue-to-impl` which:
- Creates the branch correctly
- Sets up docs and tests first
- Creates the first milestone automatically
- Starts implementation in the right order

### 3. Resume with `/miles2miles` After Each Milestone

When a milestone is created, the agent stops. To continue:
```
/miles2miles
```

This loads the context and continues from where you left off.

### 4. Milestone Commits Use `--no-verify`

Milestone commits bypass pre-commit hooks because tests are expected to be incomplete. However:
- Tests are ALWAYS run to track progress
- Milestone commits include test status (e.g., "3/8 tests pass")
- Only delivery commits (all tests pass) are merged to main
- Never use milestone commits on the main branch

### 5. Monitor Test Progress

Each milestone shows test status:
```
**Test Status:** 3/8 tests passed

**Passed Tests:**
- Test 1: Basic initialization
- Test 2: Config loading
- Test 3: Error handling

**Not Passed Tests:**
- Test 4: Edge case handling
- Test 5: Performance requirements
- Test 6: Integration with existing code
- Test 7: Cleanup logic
- Test 8: Error recovery
```

This helps you track progress toward completion.

### 6. Completion = All Tests Pass

Implementation is complete when all tests pass. At this point:
- No milestone is created
- Agent signals completion
- **Final commit must be a delivery commit** (without `[milestone]` tag):
  - Use `purpose=delivery` in commit-msg skill
  - No `--no-verify` flag (pre-commit hooks run normally)
  - Only delivery commits should be merged to main
- Ready for code review and PR creation

### 7. Review and PR Workflow

After implementation completes with all tests passing (when `/miles2miles` signals completion), follow this workflow:

**Option A: Manual workflow (recommended for control)**
```
1. /code-review          # Review changes, get feedback
2. [Fix any issues found]
3. /open-pr              # Create pull request
```

**Option B: Convenience wrapper (recommended after `/miles2miles` completion)**
```
/pull-request --open     # Review + create PR in one step
```

The `/pull-request` command provides a streamlined workflow:
- **Without flags**: Runs code review and stops with next-step guidance
- **With --open flag**: Runs code review, then creates PR immediately if review passes

---

## Troubleshooting

### "No milestone files found"

You're trying to run `/miles2miles` on a branch without milestones.

**Solution**: Use `/issue-to-impl` to start implementation, which creates the first milestone.

### "Not on development branch"

You're on `main` or another non-development branch.

**Solution**: Switch to your development branch (issue-{N}-*) or start with `/issue-to-impl`.

### "Milestone file corrupted"

The milestone document is not properly formatted.

**Solution**: Check the file in `.milestones/` and fix the format, or delete it and restart with `/issue-to-impl`.

### Tests are Not Running

Ensure your project has a `make test` target or specify test commands in your plan.

**Solution**: Add test execution to your Makefile or update the plan to specify how tests should be run.

---

## Technical Details

### LOC Tracking Mechanism

The milestone skill tracks LOC using `git diff --stat`:
- Accumulates total LOC count across the session
- Checks against 800 LOC threshold after each implementation chunk
- Stops when LOC ≥ 800 without all tests passing
- Creates milestone document with current status

### Test Status Parsing

After running tests, the milestone skill parses output to extract:
- Total test count
- Passed test count
- Failed test count
- Individual test case names and status

This information is included in milestone documents and commit messages.

### Milestone Document Versioning

Milestone documents are immutable once created:
- `issue-42-milestone-1.md` - First milestone
- `issue-42-milestone-2.md` - Second milestone
- `issue-42-milestone-3.md` - Third milestone
- etc.

Each file represents a snapshot in time. Git history shows the evolution of the implementation.

Commit message:

[milestone][agent.workflow]: Milestone 1 for issue #202
.claude/commands/miles2miles.md: Delete deprecated command
.claude/commands/README.md: Remove miles2miles from command list
.claude/commands/issue-to-impl.md: Update resume instructions to natural language
.claude/hooks/milestone-resume-hint.sh: Add session-start resume hint helper
.claude/hooks/session-init.sh: Invoke resume hint helper
.claude/settings.local.json: Allow new test script execution
.claude/skills/milestone/SKILL.md: Update resume instructions to natural language
docs/workflows/milestone.md: Replace /miles2miles with natural-language resume
docs/tutorial/02-issue-to-impl.md: Update resume section with natural language
docs/tutorial/03-advanced-usage.md: Update parallel workflow resume examples
docs/handsoff.md: Update hands-off workflow example
docs/test/workflow.md: Mark miles2miles as removed
tests/test-all.sh: Add milestone-resume-hint test to suite
tests/test-milestone-resume-hint.sh: Comprehensive tests for resume hint behavior

Remove /miles2miles command in favor of natural-language resume (e.g., "Continue from the latest milestone").
When hands-off mode is enabled (CLAUDE_HANDSOFF=true), session start automatically displays a resume hint
showing the latest milestone and suggesting natural-language resume phrases.

Test status: 7/7 tests passed (all new resume hint tests passing).

docs/workflows/milestone.md, after:

# Milestone Workflow

This document describes the milestone workflow for implementing large features incrementally with automatic progress tracking and checkpoint creation.

## Overview

The milestone workflow enables AI agents to implement large features (typically > 800 LOC) in manageable increments, creating checkpoint documents that track progress, test status, and remaining work. This allows development to span multiple sessions while maintaining clear context.

### What are Milestones?

Milestones are development checkpoints created during the implementation of large features. Each milestone:

- **Tracks progress**: Records what has been implemented and what remains
- **Monitors tests**: Shows which tests are passing and which are not
- **Provides context**: Enables resuming work from where you left off
- **Commits progress**: Creates git commits with `--no-verify` to bypass pre-commit hooks when tests are incomplete

### When to Use Milestones

Use the milestone workflow when:

- **Large features**: Implementation estimated at > 800 LOC
- **Multi-session work**: Feature requires breaking work across multiple sessions
- **Complex implementations**: Step-by-step incremental progress is beneficial
- **Test-driven development**: Tests exist but implementation is in progress

**Do NOT use milestones for:**
- Small features (< 200 LOC) - implement directly
- Bug fixes - use regular commits
- Documentation-only changes - no need for incremental tracking

---

## Workflow Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Create plan with /make-a-plan] --> B[Create issue with /open-issue]
    B --> C[Start implementation with /issue-to-impl]
    C --> D[Create new branch]
    D --> E[Update documentation]
    E --> F[Create/update test cases]
    F --> G[Create Milestone 1 - commit docs + tests]
    G --> H[Automatic milestone skill loop]
    H -->|LOC < 800 AND all tests pass| I[Completion: Ready for PR]
    H -->|LOC >= 800 AND tests incomplete| J[Create Milestone N]
    J --> K[User starts new session]
    K --> L[Resume with natural language]
    L --> H

    style A fill:#ccddff
    style B fill:#ccddff
    style C fill:#ccddff
    style G fill:#ffffcc
    style H fill:#ccddff
    style I fill:#ccffcc
    style J fill:#ffffcc
    style K fill:#ffcccc
    style L fill:#ffddcc
```

**Legend:**
- **Blue boxes**: Automated steps performed by AI agents/skills/commands
- **Yellow boxes**: Milestone creation points
- **Green boxes**: Completion/success states
- **Red boxes**: User intervention required (start new session)

---

## Milestone Document Format

Milestone documents are stored in `.milestones/issue-{N}-milestone-{M}.md` where:
- `{N}` is the issue number
- `{M}` is the milestone number (1, 2, 3, ...)

### Document Structure

```markdown
# Milestone {M} for Issue #{N}

**Branch:** issue-{N}-{brief-title}
**Created:** YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS
**LOC Implemented:** ~XXX lines
**Test Status:** X/Y tests passed

## Work Remaining

[List of implementation steps not yet completed from the original plan]

- Step 3: Implement feature X (Estimated: 120 LOC)
  - File: path/to/file.py - Description
- Step 4: Add edge case handling (Estimated: 80 LOC)
  - File: path/to/other.py - Description

## Next File Changes (Estimated LOC for Next Milestone)

- `path/to/file1.py`: Description of changes needed (~50 LOC)
- `path/to/file2.py`: Description of changes needed (~120 LOC)
- `tests/test_feature.sh`: Additional test cases (~80 LOC)

**Total estimated for next milestone:** ~250 LOC

## Test Status

**Passed Tests:**
- test-agentize-modes.sh: All 6 tests passed
- test-c-sdk.sh: All tests passed

**Not Passed Tests:**
- test-new-feature.sh: 3 tests failing
  - Test case: Feature initialization
  - Test case: Edge case handling
  - Test case: Error recovery
```

---

## Commands and Skills

### `/issue-to-impl` - Start Implementation

Orchestrates the full implementation workflow from issue to completion.

**Usage:**
```
/issue-to-impl [issue-number]
```

If issue number is not provided, it will be extracted from conversation context.

**What it does:**
1. Creates a new development branch using the `fork-dev-branch` skill
2. Updates documentation based on the plan in the issue
3. Creates/updates test cases based on the plan
4. Creates **Milestone 1** automatically (commits docs + tests)
5. Starts the automatic milestone skill loop:
   - Implements code in chunks (~100-200 LOC)
   - Runs tests after each chunk
   - Stops when LOC ≥ 800 without completion (creates next milestone)
   - Continues until all tests pass (completion)

**Stopping conditions:**
- **Milestone created**: Agent stops and informs user to resume in next session
- **Completion**: All tests pass, ready for PR creation

**Example:**
```
User: /issue-to-impl 42
Agent: Creating branch for issue #42...
Agent: Updating documentation...
Agent: Creating test cases...
Agent: Creating Milestone 1 (0/8 tests pass)...
Agent: Implementing feature...
Agent: Milestone 2 created at 850 LOC (3/8 tests pass).
Agent: Resume with: "Continue from the latest milestone"
```

### Resuming from Milestones

When a milestone is created, use natural language to resume implementation.

**Usage:**
```
User: Resume from the latest milestone
User: Continue implementation
User: Continue from .milestones/issue-42-milestone-2.md
```

When hands-off mode is enabled (`CLAUDE_HANDSOFF=true`), session start automatically displays a hint when a milestone exists on the current branch.

**What happens:**
1. Validates you're on a development branch (issue-{N}-*)
2. Finds the latest milestone file: `.milestones/issue-{N}-milestone-*.md`
3. Loads context: work remaining, next file changes, test status
4. Displays milestone summary
5. Invokes the milestone skill to continue implementation
6. Creates next milestone or completes if all tests pass

**Example:**
```
User: Continue from the latest milestone
Agent: Resuming from Milestone 2 for Issue #42
Agent: Test status: 3/8 tests passed
Agent: Estimated work remaining: ~350 LOC
Agent: Continuing implementation...
Agent: [implements next chunk]
Agent: Milestone 3 created at 780 LOC (6/8 tests pass).
Agent: Resume with: "Continue from the latest milestone"
```

### `milestone` Skill - Implementation Driver

The core skill that drives incremental implementation. Automatically invoked by `/issue-to-impl` and natural-language resume requests.

**What it does:**
- Reads the plan from issue or latest milestone document
- Implements code in chunks (100-200 LOC per chunk)
- Tracks total LOC count using `git diff --stat`
- Runs tests after each implementation chunk
- Parses test results to track passed/failed counts
- Creates milestone documents when LOC ≥ 800 without completion
- Signals completion when all tests pass

---

## Example Walkthrough

### Scenario: Implementing a Large Feature (1200 LOC estimated)

**Step 1: Planning**
```
User: /make-a-plan
[Agent creates comprehensive plan with 1200 LOC estimate]

User: /open-issue
[Agent creates issue #42 with the plan]
```

**Step 2: Start Implementation**
```
User: /issue-to-impl 42

Agent: Creating branch issue-42-add-typescript-support...
Agent: Updating documentation...
  - docs/typescript-support.md created
  - README.md updated
Agent: Creating test cases...
  - tests/test-typescript.sh created (8 test cases)
Agent: Creating Milestone 1...
  - Committed docs + tests (0/8 tests pass)
Agent: Implementing feature...
  [works for ~45 minutes, implementing code]
Agent: Milestone 2 created at 820 LOC (3/8 tests pass)
Agent: Resume with: "Continue from the latest milestone"
```

**Step 3: Resume (Next Session)**
```
User: Continue from the latest milestone

Agent: Resuming from Milestone 2 for Issue #42
Agent: Test status: 3/8 tests passed
Agent: Estimated work remaining: ~380 LOC
Agent: Continuing implementation...
  [works for ~30 minutes]
Agent: All tests passed (8/8)!
Agent: Implementation complete, ready for PR creation.
```

---

## Best Practices

### 1. Always Start with a Plan

Create a detailed plan using `/make-a-plan` before starting implementation. The plan should include:
- Specific files to modify/create
- LOC estimates for each step
- Test strategy
- Implementation steps in Design-first TDD order

### 2. Run `/issue-to-impl` Instead of Manual Branch Creation

Don't manually create branches and implement - use `/issue-to-impl` which:
- Creates the branch correctly
- Sets up docs and tests first
- Creates the first milestone automatically
- Starts implementation in the right order

### 3. Resume After Each Milestone

When a milestone is created, the agent stops. To continue, use natural language:
```
User: Resume from the latest milestone
User: Continue implementation
```

When hands-off mode is enabled (`CLAUDE_HANDSOFF=true`), session start automatically displays a hint showing which milestone to resume from.

This loads the context and continues from where you left off.

### 4. Milestone Commits Use `--no-verify`

Milestone commits bypass pre-commit hooks because tests are expected to be incomplete. However:
- Tests are ALWAYS run to track progress
- Milestone commits include test status (e.g., "3/8 tests pass")
- Only delivery commits (all tests pass) are merged to main
- Never use milestone commits on the main branch

### 5. Monitor Test Progress

Each milestone shows test status:
```
**Test Status:** 3/8 tests passed

**Passed Tests:**
- Test 1: Basic initialization
- Test 2: Config loading
- Test 3: Error handling

**Not Passed Tests:**
- Test 4: Edge case handling
- Test 5: Performance requirements
- Test 6: Integration with existing code
- Test 7: Cleanup logic
- Test 8: Error recovery
```

This helps you track progress toward completion.

### 6. Completion = All Tests Pass

Implementation is complete when all tests pass. At this point:
- No milestone is created
- Agent signals completion
- **Final commit must be a delivery commit** (without `[milestone]` tag):
  - Use `purpose=delivery` in commit-msg skill
  - No `--no-verify` flag (pre-commit hooks run normally)
  - Only delivery commits should be merged to main
- Ready for code review and PR creation

### 7. Review and PR Workflow

After implementation completes with all tests passing, follow this workflow:

**Option A: Manual workflow (recommended for control)**
```
1. /code-review          # Review changes, get feedback
2. [Fix any issues found]
3. /open-pr              # Create pull request
```

**Option B: Convenience wrapper (recommended after implementation completion)**
```
/pull-request --open     # Review + create PR in one step
```

The `/pull-request` command provides a streamlined workflow:
- **Without flags**: Runs code review and stops with next-step guidance
- **With --open flag**: Runs code review, then creates PR immediately if review passes

---

## Troubleshooting

### "No milestone files found"

You're trying to resume from a milestone on a branch without milestones.

**Solution**: Use `/issue-to-impl` to start implementation, which creates the first milestone.

### "Not on development branch"

You're on `main` or another non-development branch.

**Solution**: Switch to your development branch (issue-{N}-*) or start with `/issue-to-impl`.

### "Milestone file corrupted"

The milestone document is not properly formatted.

**Solution**: Check the file in `.milestones/` and fix the format, or delete it and restart with `/issue-to-impl`.

### Tests are Not Running

Ensure your project has a `make test` target or specify test commands in your plan.

**Solution**: Add test execution to your Makefile or update the plan to specify how tests should be run.

---

## Technical Details

### LOC Tracking Mechanism

The milestone skill tracks LOC using `git diff --stat`:
- Accumulates total LOC count across the session
- Checks against 800 LOC threshold after each implementation chunk
- Stops when LOC ≥ 800 without all tests passing
- Creates milestone document with current status

### Test Status Parsing

After running tests, the milestone skill parses output to extract:
- Total test count
- Passed test count
- Failed test count
- Individual test case names and status

This information is included in milestone documents and commit messages.

### Milestone Document Versioning

Milestone documents are immutable once created:
- `issue-42-milestone-1.md` - First milestone
- `issue-42-milestone-2.md` - Second milestone
- `issue-42-milestone-3.md` - Third milestone
- etc.

Each file represents a snapshot in time. Git history shows the evolution of the implementation.
